---
date:
  created: 2025-06-22
categories:
  - Project
tags:
  - hardware
  - home upgrade
---
# Changing the Bathroom Fan Really Blows

I can't say I'm a huge fan of this last home upgrade project, and I'm writing this article to vent. I recently replaced my bathroom fan, which I've had no prior experience with and decided to give it a whir. All the warnings seem to have been mist on me, but completing this project was really a breath of fresh air.

<!-- more -->

## Why do this?

I moved in to my apartment over 2 years ago, and the bathroom fans have always annoyed me and been in the back of my mind as an upgrade item. They're loud and squeaky, and they don't seem to work very well. After a short shower, the mirror still gets super foggy, and even the walls and ceiling get wet, which is obviously not good for mold. (Well, I suppose the mold is happy.)

After watching several videos on YouTube with guys complete this entire project in 15-20 minutes made me think, "how hard could it be?" I was ready to take on the challenge myself. My goal was to get a new quieter fan, with a higher airflow rate or simply quieter, or both.

> *How hard could it be?*

## Removing the old fan

The first step here was to take out the old fan. It's directly over the toilet so I couldn't use a regular stepladder to stand on, but luckily I had an A-frame ladder which worked perfectly to position me for the job. I put on some PPE, shut the power off, and put some newspapers on the toilet and floor to catch the falling debris. Pulling out the vent was the easy part, except it was rusted in there so it needed some force to yank out. Removing the motor and fan was also not too hard - there was one screw to remove, and then I needed to pull down a flap to take the motor out. However, it was absolutely filthy and caked in dust. I'm so glad I was wearing safety glasses and a face mask.

Next, I had to disconnect the house wiring from the motor housing. This turned out to be a massive challenge. The wires were connected with what seemed to be wire nuts, but the outer rubber coating rotated freely from the inner metal threading. I tried rotating it and clamping it down as hard as possible with a pair of pliers, but I could not get these stupid nuts to budge. I even sent photos to my coworkers (electricians) asking what they would do, which is exactly what I had done. In the end, I couldn't make any more progress, so I finally ended up cutting and stripping the wires. I saved the wire nuts to bring to work.

Now that the electrical interfaces were disconnected, I could remove the motor housing. This proved to be an even more daunting task than the last. The box was nailed in by 2 nails, in places I could easily reach. (Thank Gods.) Sadly, these nails also wouldn't budge no matter how much force I applied. I guarantee that this old construction was from the time this house was built in 1975; 50 years ago on the dot. What I ended up doing here was ditching the hammer, and using 2 pairs of pliers to weaken the housing itself (sheet metal) and eventually break off the housing completely. *Those 2 nails are still in the beam to this very day.* Finally, I had removed the old fan.

## Sizing a new fan

