---
date:
  created: 2024-05-13
categories:
  - Journal
tags:
  - short story
---
# Reader/Writer's Block

I've been having a bit of a writer's block lately! At this rate, I won't make my New Year's resolution of one written piece per week. It's no different for my reading - I suppose I'm having a bit of a reader's block too. A few days, ago, I picked up a book and read one chapter - my first this year.

<!-- more -->

Counting this article, I will have 22 published articles in my website in 2024. To my surprise, it's only week 20 of this year, so I am still on track! (Ahead by 2 weeks, I might add.)

I'm going to try to write some more short stories to keep my journal alive. I think that will be my favorite category to read later on. If I have time to work on my personal projects too, I'll be sure to write about them as well.

The chapter I read was the first chapter in the book called *Lexicon*, by Max Barry. It's sort of like a futuristic fantasy novel as far as I can tell. I really enjoyed another one of his books called *Jennifer Government*, a dystopian future which I had read several years ago.

I know I have plenty to write about - these last few weeks have been incredibly busy. My running has picked up quite a bit, thanks to meets with the Marin Running Club, I've also been playing a lot of pickleball (but I'm still awful at it), and have done plenty of day trips around the San Francisco bay area. I also got to go skiing once this season! Also, I was able to see two incredible phenomena - a partial solar eclipse, and the faint glow of the aurora borealis!

I definitely have enough content to write for days, I just need to figure out what to write about, and actually get started on something. Thus beginning the "short stories" series.