---
categories:
  - Random
tags:
  - job
  - hobby
---
# Jobby

Something I've been wondering about for the past couple days is whether your job should match your hobby, or be something quite different. For example, one of the things I like doing in my spare time is programming. Although, I haven't had much time for that lately since I've been focusing on my running and pickleball, and various house-work items have popped up.

<!-- more -->

I do some programming for my job. I would estimate I spend about 25% of my time, at most, writing code. So, significant, but not huge. I definitely noticed that in the past several months, I have been writing a lot less code in my free time. I wonder how that would change if I spent 90% of my job programming.

To me, programming is an interesting one too, since I believe it will be one of the first automated technical jobs. Who knows when that will be. Could be a few years, or many decades from now. I don't get to retire for another 40 years, so I'm hoping that by then, my job is still safe.

I think that if I spent all my time programming at work, I would do it even less at home. But again, I'm not sure about that. Maybe it would have the opposite effect - would I learn cool skills at work that I would want to try out at home? Would I become such a great programmer that coding would feel effortless?

What if my hobby was something else, like housework, and I worked as a handyman? Would I be more or less inclined to do jobs and improvements at home?