# `nicfv` Wrapped 2025

Happy belated new year! Similar to my [2024 wrapped](./2024-12-19-year.md), let's recap on some of my achievements for 2025, another big year.

## Travel

I got a lot of miles in this year and visited *four* new states! New to me, not to the country.

| Month | Destination |      | Conference? | Flight Distance [mi] (1-way) |
| ----- | ----------- | ---- | ----------- | ----------------------------:|
| January | Hawaii (multiple islands) | *New!* | | 2393 |
| February | Orlando, Florida | *New!* | ASHRAE | 2443 |
| May | Orlando, Florida | | ESTech | 2443 |
| August | Boston, Mass. | *New!* | | 2696 |
| November | St. Louis, Missouri | *New!* | Supercomputing | 1732 |
| December | Columbus, Ohio | | | 2111 |
| December | Portland, Oregon | | | 550 |

In total, I flew 28,736 miles! To put that in perspective, the circumference of Earth is around 24,900 miles. That means in total, I flew **all the way** around the Earth and nearly another 4,000 miles - that's about the distance from New York City to Barcelona. At a speed of 500 miles per hour, that's over 57 hours of flight, which is more than 2 days straight!

> At lightspeed, that would take about 150 milliseconds.

## Writing

I lost my habit of writing one article per week like I did in 2024. I only wrote 7 articles throughout 2025. That includes 4 personal stories, 2 shower thoughts, and one project summary. I am going to try getting back into writing one article per week this year. So far so good, as this is the 3rd week of 2026 and this will be my 4th article. But this one should be about 2025.

## Music

According to Spotify, I listened for 19,667 minutes between 1,167 songs and 5 albums, and my top song this year was *Simple Song* by The Shins. My listening age is 26, which matched my age exactly in 2025!

### Top Genre

Indie Folk

### Top Artists

1. Noah Kahan
1. Mt. Joy
1. TheFatRat
1. AJR
1. The Shins

### Top Songs

1. Simple Song (The Shins)
1. Sedona (Houndmouth)
1. Strangers (Mt. Joy)
1. Now & Then (Sjowgren)
1. Shake (The Head and The Heart)

3rd Eye Blind, Deep Chills, and Fleet Foxes were kicked off my top 5 artists for Noah Kahan, TheFatRat, and AJR. Interestingly, Mt. Joy and The Shins not only both stayed in my top 5, but in the **exact** same spots as last year! *Strangers* by Mt. Joy still made my top 5 but it fell from first to 3rd place. That was the only song that persisted in my top 5. If you put all my listening end-to-end, I listened for over 13 days and 16 hours straight. I also started listening to the *Morbid* true crime podcast.

## Exercise

This data comes from Strava:

| Type | Activities | Distance | Time | Elevation |
| ---- | ---------- | -------- | ---- | --------- |
| Run | 162 | 510.1 mi | 93:43 | 30,851 ft |
| Walk | 119 | 250.9 mi | 78:52 | 11,068 ft |
| Bike | 1 | 16.9 mi | 01:29 | 670 ft |
| **Total** | 282 | 777.9 mi | 174:04 | 42,589 ft |

This year I only went out for a [single bike ride](https://www.strava.com/activities/14494424356) - but it was a long one. I started in downtown Novato and went to the San Rafael civic center and back. It was a scenic road ride with some bay views. My most active months were May and September through November. My running is remarkably consistent, running 511.4 mi in 2024 and 510.1 mi in 2025. I also became a [local legend](https://www.strava.com/segments/16834255) for completing a segment from the Golden Gate Bridge to Marin City several times.

## Programming

According to GitHub, I made 611 commits this year. Most of these I expect are in my [npm](./2024-12-07-npm-monorepo.md) repository, but I did create one "game" and several tools. The game is in quotes, because there isn't much of a game. It generates a random cave system for the player to explore and collect items. I made this in a few ours on one of my many [flights](#travel). Some of the tools I've produced this past year include my Unit Converter and Dimensional Analysis Playground (courtesy of [`dimensional`](https://npm.nicfv.com/modules/dimensional.html).) I also created a simple Pokemon Go catch rate calculator and a file to data URL generator.

I added the [`graphico`](https://npm.nicfv.com/modules/graphico.html) package and made significant upgrades to most of my other packages, and added live demos directly on the documentation pages.

## Other

- Learned how to make:
    - Risotto (it's surprisingly easy!)
    - Ravioli (it's about as difficult as you think)
- TV:
    - Finished *Andor* season 2, which was a good transition into *Rogue One*, Disney definitely didn't ruin this one
    - Watched *Severance* season 1
    - Started and finished *Ted Lasso*
    - Started *Gilmore Girls* and *Grey's Anatomy*
- Went to trivia night several times in Mission Bay, and contributed once or twice
- Hiked all the way around Angel Island
- Walked a stray dog halfway across San Francisco
- Went to a Giants vs. Orioles game (Giants won)
- Posted 201 photos on Instagram ([@nykfv](https://www.instagram.com/nykfv/))

## Conclusion

It feels good to reflect on all of my accomplishments of the past year and to know my time wasn't wasted. Looking forward to doing this again at the end of 2026!
