# Ordering The Alphabet

The letters are all out of alphabetical order! "A" first? "Z" last? What's the point of "C" when it can either be "S" or "K"? All those questions you never had, and more, coming right up. Disclaimer: This only works for American English. Sorry, 95% of the rest of the world!

## Old Alphabet

Currently, the alphabet as we know it contains 26 letters. It's ordered:

```txt
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
```

But this makes no sense, we can make it better.

## Sounds

Let's start by removing redundant letters. For example, "X" is equivalent to "KS". I could spell the word "example" as "eksample" and it would sound the exact same. I propose removing the following letters:

| Letter | Replaced By |
| ------ | ------ |
| C | K *or* S |
| Q | KW |
| W | OO |
| X | KS |
| Y | EE *or* AIE |

There are a few sounds missing from the alphabet that need their own letter. For now, they will be written as letter pairs.

| Sound |
| ----- |
| Ng |
| Sh |
| Th |

As you might have guessed, the "ch" sound can be written as "tsh", so there is no need to include a redundant "ch" letter.

There are also a few rule changes when it comes to what sounds each letter can make:

| Letter | Allowed | Not Allowed | Correct |
| ------ | ------- | ----------- | ------- |
| F | for | of | ov |
| G | get | wage | waje |

## Letters

Now, let's talk about individual letters. There are many letters that are spelled incorrectly. Let's fix that:

| Letter | Current Spelling | Proposed Spelling | Changed? |
| ------ | ---------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| A | Ay | Ha *or* Hay | y |
| B | Bee | Bee | n |
| C | See | | *removed* |
| D | Dee | Dee | n |
| E | Eee | Heh *or* Hee | y |
| F | Eff | Fee | y |
| G | Djee | Gee (hard "G") | y |
| H | Aych | *no change TODO* | |
| I | Aye | Hih *or* Hi | y |
| J | Jay | Djee | y |
| K | Kay | Kee | y |
| L | Ell | Lee | y |
| M | Emm | Mee | y |
| N | Enn | Nee | y |
| O | Oh | Hoh *or* Hoo | y |
| P | Pee | Pee | n |
| Q | Kyew | | *removed* |
| R | Arr | Ree | y |
| S | Ess | See | y |
| T | Tee | Tee | n |
| U | Yoo | Huh | y |
| V | Vee | Vee | n |
| W | Double yoo | | *removed* |
| X | Eks | | *removed* |
| Y | Wye | | *removed* |
| Z | Zee | Zee | n |

And for our letter additions:

| Letter | Proposed Spelling |
| ------ | ----------------- |
| Ng | Ngee |
| Sh | Shee |
| Th | Thee |

## Vowels

I've been deliberately holding off doing vowel rules, because this will be a doozy. Each vowel currently can make so many different sounds. We need to make (and enforce) new rules that say exactly what each vowel can make. You might have already seen a "teaser" of this in my letter spelling. For vowels, I included different spellings depending on which vowel type you are using.

For example, the letter "A" can be used in the words "apple"/"half", "car"/"ball", and "baby"/"anger", where all of these have different pronounciations. For the sound in "car"/"ball", I propose using the short "O" sound, so these would be spelled "kor" and "bol", respectively.

This new alphabet also alleviates the need for double letters. It should also go without saying that there are no silent letters. For example, "fight" would be spelled "fait".

| Vowel | Allowed (short) | Allowed (long) | Not Allowed | Replaced By |
| ----- | --------------- | -------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| A | apple, half | baby, anger | car, ball | short "o" |
| E | pen, let | feel, meet | the | short "u" |
| I | bin, six | fine, tiger | fling | long "ee" |
| O | loft, hot | short, no | do, food | long "u" |
| U | run, stunk | dune, fluke | round | short "aw" |

This limits vowels to just 2 "types", short and long. We could create separate letters

We also need to add one more vowel for the "oo" sound in "book", which for now I will write as a double "O".

| Vowel | Proposed Spelling | Examples |
| ----- | ----------------- | -------- |
| Oo | Hooh | book, wood, foot |

## Ordering

In the standard alphabet, the vowels are in positions 1, 5, 9, 15, and 21.

```txt
A___E___I_____O_____U_____
```

It starts out with a decent pattern: 1 vowel, 3 consonants, 1 vowel, 3 consonants, 1 vowel... and then 5 consonants, 1 vowel, 5 consonants, 1 vowel, ending in 5 consonants. The pattern breaks quickly, so what I propose is to group all vowels at the beginning of the alphabet, including our new "Oo" vowel. We'll sort these based on where the sound comes from in your throat/mouth, starting from most constrictive to least (using short sounds.)

```txt
I, E, A, Oo, U, O
```

Using long sounds, you get a similar but slightly different pattern:

```txt
E, I, A, Oo, U, O
```

Let's order the consonants the same way. First, grouping them up by sound location.

1. Mouth Open
    - H
1. Tongue on teeth
    - Th
1. Lips touching
    - B
    - M
    - P
1. Teeth on lips
    - F
    - V
1. Toungue behind front teeth
    - D
    - L
    - N
    - T
1. Tongue on front roof
    - S
    - Z
1. Tongue on middle roof
    - J
    - Sh
1. Tongue on back roof
    - G
    - K
    - R
    - Ng

And we'll order by least to most "impact" for each subgroup. For example, "T" is more impactful than "L" within its group, so it will show up later in the alphabet.

```txt
H | Th | M, B, P | V, F | L, N, D, T | Z, S | Sh, J | R, Ng, G, K
```