# How to Wake Up and Focus

Many times, I find myself having a lot to do an simply not doing it. In fact, the more things that I have to do, the more I procrastinate, leading to just more things to catch up on. But once I get into the "flow state", my mind is so sharp and concentrated, and that's one of the best feelings. I don't get why my brain just doesn't want to get into the flow state on its own. I have my own tricks and I've done some a bit of online research to try to find out how to kick myself into gear.

Some of the things I've tried in the past were showering or brushing teeth (yes, even if it's the middle of the day.) I think that it's a good brain "reset" and maybe subconsciously my brain thinks "it's time to wake up" (from sleep.) Other times I "brute force" doing a small task, like for example when it's time to do a deep clean, I just wipe down the kitchen table, and before I know it I'm cleaning the whole kitchen.

As you might be able to tell, I'm in one of those predicaments right now. I had plenty of sleep (9 hours!!) but my brain feels super tired. I haven't done much all day; I walked a few miles in the morning, pulled some weeds, cleaned up a bit inside, and made lunch. I tried my showering trick but my brain is still super tired.

From what I've found online, it really boils down to 3 things:

1. Drink lots of water. Dehydration impairs attention and memory.
1. Get plenty of sunlight. Light boosts alertness.
1. Be active. This moves blood around your body including to your brain.

Honestly, this all kind of makes sense. I'm really thirsty right now, and I've pretty much been inside since lunch and haven't moved around much. So I'm going to go off and try these out, and I hope they work! Luckily it's a nice day - maybe when I'm back I'll finally be awake enough to work on some more of my personal projects. See you outside!
