# Generating Repeatable, Pseudorandom Sequences

I'm working on a game called [GeoMarin](https://app.nicfv.com/games/geomarin/) which is a Wordle-style guessing game that tests your geography knowledge of Marin county. Similar to how Wordle has a dictionary of thousands of words to use as possible solutions, one of the tasks I need to complete for GeoMarin is to essentially create a "dictionary" of locations to use as possible solutions. With this, I would generate one random solution per day which would be the same solution across all instances of the game; basically the same way Wordle works.

The challenge is that I'm hosting this on GitHub pages, and I don't have a server to query the API of. I could run a CRON job daily and publish a new answer, but I wanted a way to run the game with only a frontend. That way, it would be easier to test it while developing as well. (I know, I could use a Live Server. I do have one installed in VS Code!)

## Indexing a Random Number

Basically, my idea was to use the number of days since the epoch (Jan. 1st, 1970) to use as some kind of "index", which will be a unique, sequential number each day. Also, this will be the same number across *ALL* games. I'm just not going to worry about time zones for now. So, this was a good start.

```ts
function daysSinceEpoch(): number {
    const msPerDay: number = 1000 * 60 * 60 * 24;
    return Math.floor(Date.now() / msPerDay);
}
```

Using this "index", I considered installing a seeded random number generator and setting a new seed each day, but that could (rarely) cause the same answer twice in a row. Also, it might repeat answers before exhausting the full "dictionary" of solutions. So basically, I wanted a way to "shuffle" the dictionary and use the function above to select the index for the daily solution.

## Picking a Solution

Let's say my dictionary contains 10 solutions (indices 0 through 9). One way to exhaust all 10 solutions before repeating any would just be to take $d \mod 10$ (where $d$ is the number of days since the epoch.) This technically works, but basically just increments the index by 1 each time and then wrapping around after all 10 have been reached. This is not the *best*, because I won't be consciously randomizing my dictionary as I build it, so I'll have "clusters" of similar answers, and even if I did, keen players might memorize the sequence of solutions after all of them have been reached.

```txt
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ...
```

The idea I finally settled on was to multiply $d$ by some factor, so instead of a simple increment by 1, now I have $(r \times d) \mod 10$ where $r$ is some special number. Now the question is how do I pick $r$ so that I get enough "randomness" and still ensure that my other conditions are met? Let's say I pick $r=2$.

```txt
0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 ...
```

Huh, interesting, the sequence repeated itself before exhausting all the possibilities. So it looks like you can't pick $r$ as just any arbitrary number, it has to be specifically chosen. $r=3$ seems to work.

```txt
0 3 6 9 2 5 8 1 4 7 0 3 6 9 2 5 8 1 4 7 ...
```

It used up all the numbers before repeating the pattern. So if $r=2$ doesn't work but $r=3$ works, what is the difference? As it turns out, if $r$ shares any factors with the number of solutions (10 in this case) then we'll have this early-repeating behavior. Since the factors of 10 are 2 and 5, if we set $r=5$ we'll see the same thing.

```txt
0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 ...
```

Even if they only share *some* factors, like $r=8$, we won't see all the possible solutions before it recycles.

```txt
0 8 6 4 2 0 8 6 4 2 0 8 6 4 2 0 8 6 4 2 ...
```

If you "reflect" $r$ (e.g. $r'=10-r$, like 2 and 8 for example) then you get the exact same sequence but just in reverse.

And in case you were wondering, if you set $r>10$, it will behave the same way as $r-10$ because of the modulo operator. The way I think of it is that you have $r$ numberlines of solutions, starting at the beginning, and incrementing each time by $r$. Notice how when $r=3$ and $r=13$, the second index (1) is 3 both times.

### r=2

```txt
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
```

### r=3

```txt
0 1 2(3)4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ...
0     1     2     3     4     5     6   ...
```

### r=13

```txt
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2(3)4 5 6 7 8 9 ...
0                         1             ...
```

## The Most "Random"

So basically what I found out is that $r$ cannot share *any* factors with 10, being the number of dictionary solutions. Mathematically that makes them coprime.

> That doesn't necessarily mean that either number is prime, it only means that they cannot share any factors. One of the numbers being prime can help, though!

So how do I pick the best $r$? Remember how I said earlier that if I set $r>\text{N}_\text{sln}$ then I get the exact same sequence as $r-10$. Also, if I "reflect" $r$ like $r'=10-r$, then I just get the same sequence in reverse. Lastly, I don't need to consider $r \le 0$. So, I only need to consider the following coprimes in this range for $r$.

$$1 \le r \le \left\lfloor \frac{1}{2}\cdot\text{N}_\text{sln} \right\rfloor$$

I've determined that somewhere in the middle is the ideal spot. To determine coprimes, I implemented Euclid's Algorithm to determine the greatest common divisor (GCD) of the two values. If $\text{GCD} = 1$, then they are coprime and I can generate repeatable, pseudorandom sequences using my formula.

$$ x = (r \times d) \mod \text{N}_\text{sln}$$
